docker/istio-dev/README.md, before:

# Istio Development Environment in Docker

This `Dockerfile` creates an Ubuntu-based Docker image for developing on Istio.

## Image Configuration

- The base Istio development tools and the following additional tools are installed, with Bash completion configured:
    - [Docker CLI](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cli/)
    - [Google Cloud SDK (gcloud)](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/)
    - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/kubectl/)
    - [Kubernetes IN Docker (KIND)](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind)
    - [Helm](https://helm.sh/)
- A user with the same name as the local host user is created. That user has full sudo rights without password.
- The following volumes are mounted from the host into the container to share development files and configuration:
    - Go directory: `$(GOPATH)` → `/home/$(USER)/go`
    - Google Cloud SDK config: `$(HOME)/.config/gcloud` → `/home/$(USER)/.config/gcloud`
    - Kubernetes config: `$(HOME)/.kube` → `/home/$(USER)/.kube`
    - Docker socket, to access Docker from within the container: `/var/run/docker.sock` → `/var/run/docker.sock`
- The working directory is `/home/$user/go/src/istio.io/istio`.

## Creating The Container

To create your dev container, run:

```bash
make dev-shell BUILD_WITH_CONTAINER=0
```

The first time this target it run, a Docker image named `istio/dev:USER` is created, where USER is your local username.
Any subsequent run won't rebuild the image unless the `Dockerfile` is modified.

The first time this target is run, a container named `istio-dev` is run with this image, and an interactive shell is executed in the container.
Any subsequent run won't restart the container and will only start an additional interactive shell.

## Kubernetes Cluster Creation Using KIND

A Kubernetes can be created using KIND. For instance, to create a cluster named `blah` with 2 workers, run the following command within the container:

```bash
export CLUSTER_NAME="blah"

kind create cluster --name="$CLUSTER_NAME" --config=- <<EOF
kind: Cluster
apiVersion: kind.sigs.k8s.io/v1alpha3
nodes:
- role: control-plane
- role: worker
- role: worker
kubeadmConfigPatches:
  - |
    apiVersion: kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta2
    kind: ClusterConfiguration
    metadata:
      name: config
    apiServer:
      extraArgs:
        "service-account-issuer": "kubernetes.default.svc"
        "service-account-signing-key-file": "/etc/kubernetes/pki/sa.key"
EOF

export KUBECONFIG=$(kind get kubeconfig-path --name="$CLUSTER_NAME")
```

KIND was originally intended to run from the host, so KIND rewrites the kubeconfig to redirect the port to kubeadmin.
This rewriting must be undone to allow connecting directly from within the container:

```bash
docker exec "${CLUSTER_NAME}-control-plane" cat /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf > $KUBECONFIG
```

Check that you can access the cluster:

```bash
kubectl get nodes
```

## Removing The Container

```bash
docker stop istio-dev
docker rm istio-dev
```

Commit message:

Add istio build and test commands to istio-dev README

docker/istio-dev/README.md, after:

# Istio Development Environment in Docker

This `Dockerfile` creates an Ubuntu-based Docker image for developing on Istio.

## Image Configuration

- The base Istio development tools and the following additional tools are installed, with Bash completion configured:
    - [Docker CLI](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cli/)
    - [Google Cloud SDK (gcloud)](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/)
    - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/kubectl/)
    - [Kubernetes IN Docker (KIND)](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind)
    - [Helm](https://helm.sh/)
- A user with the same name as the local host user is created. That user has full sudo rights without password.
- The following volumes are mounted from the host into the container to share development files and configuration:
    - Go directory: `$(GOPATH)` → `/home/$(USER)/go`
    - Google Cloud SDK config: `$(HOME)/.config/gcloud` → `/home/$(USER)/.config/gcloud`
    - Kubernetes config: `$(HOME)/.kube` → `/home/$(USER)/.kube`
    - Docker socket, to access Docker from within the container: `/var/run/docker.sock` → `/var/run/docker.sock`
- The working directory is `/home/$user/go/src/istio.io/istio`.

## Creating The Container

To create your dev container, run:

```bash
make dev-shell BUILD_WITH_CONTAINER=0
```

The first time this target it run, a Docker image named `istio/dev:USER` is created, where USER is your local username.
Any subsequent run won't rebuild the image unless the `Dockerfile` is modified.

The first time this target is run, a container named `istio-dev` is run with this image, and an interactive shell is executed in the container.
Any subsequent run won't restart the container and will only start an additional interactive shell.

## Kubernetes Cluster Creation Using KIND

A Kubernetes can be created using KIND. For instance, to create a cluster named `blah` with 2 workers, run the following command within the container:

```bash
export CLUSTER_NAME="blah"

kind create cluster --name="$CLUSTER_NAME" --config=- <<EOF
kind: Cluster
apiVersion: kind.sigs.k8s.io/v1alpha3
nodes:
- role: control-plane
- role: worker
- role: worker
kubeadmConfigPatches:
  - |
    apiVersion: kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta2
    kind: ClusterConfiguration
    metadata:
      name: config
    apiServer:
      extraArgs:
        "service-account-issuer": "kubernetes.default.svc"
        "service-account-signing-key-file": "/etc/kubernetes/pki/sa.key"
EOF

export KUBECONFIG=$(kind get kubeconfig-path --name="$CLUSTER_NAME")
```

KIND was originally intended to run from the host, so KIND rewrites the kubeconfig to redirect the port to kubeadmin.
This rewriting must be undone to allow connecting directly from within the container:

```bash
docker exec "${CLUSTER_NAME}-control-plane" cat /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf > $KUBECONFIG
```

Check that you can access the cluster:

```bash
kubectl get nodes
```

## Build istio and run unit tests in istio-dev container

```bash
cd ~/go/src/istio.io/istio
```

For istio building

```bash
make build BUILD_WITH_CONTAINER=0
```

For istio unit tests

```bash
make test BUILD_WITH_CONTAINER=0
```

When rebuilding, you may find that istio cannot find the go path,
one simple approach is to add the go binary file to system bin/

```bash
cp /usr/local/go/bin/go /bin
```

## Removing The Container

```bash
docker stop istio-dev
docker rm istio-dev
```
