perf/istio-install/README.md, before:

# Istio Setup

For performance testing, it is recommended to setup Istio with performance oriented values, but it is not required.

This setup requires a very large cluster - at least 32 vCPUs reserved for Istio is recommended.

### Setup With Performance Parameters

Look at values.yaml for details on the parameters.

To setup Istio, run `DNS_DOMAIN=your-example-domain ./setup_istio.sh release-1.1-20190125-09-16`.

To just output the deployment file, run `DRY_RUN=1 DNS_DOMAIN=your-example-domain ./setup.sh release-1.1-20190125-09-16`.

You may replace the release in the command to the release to test.

You may also override the Helm repo or release URL:

```bash
export HELMREPO_URL=https://storage.googleapis.com/istio-release/releases/1.1.0-rc.0/charts/index.yaml
export RELEASE_URL=https://github.com/istio/istio/releases/download/untagged-c41cff3404b8cc79a97e/istio-1.1.0-rc.0-linux.tar.gz

DNS_DOMAIN=your-example-domain ./setup.sh release-1.1-20190203-09-16
```

### Installing release candidates
```bash
DNS_DOMAIN=v11mcp.qualistio.org ./setup_istio_release.sh 1.1.4 pre-release
```
This option uses pre-release buckets to get builds and charts.

Commit message:

Ability to specify ADDON with create cluster and latest build

perf/istio-install/README.md, after:

# Istio Setup

For performance testing, it is recommended to setup Istio with performance oriented values, but it is not required.

This setup requires a very large cluster - at least 32 vCPUs reserved for Istio is recommended.

### Setup With Performance Parameters

Look at values.yaml for details on the parameters.

To setup Istio with a specific release, run `DNS_DOMAIN=your-example-domain ./setup_istio.sh release-1.1-20190125-09-16`.

To setup Istio with latest of a branch, run `DNS_DOMAIN=your-example-domain ./setup_istio.sh release-1.2-latest`.
This command will setup the latest build from the 1.2 release branch.

To just output the deployment file, run `DRY_RUN=1 DNS_DOMAIN=your-example-domain ./setup.sh release-1.1-20190125-09-16`.

#### Latest release
DNS_DOMAIN=v11p.qualistio.org ./setup_istio.sh release-1.1-latest
You may replace the release in the command to the release to test.

You may also override the Helm repo or release URL:

```bash
export HELMREPO_URL=https://storage.googleapis.com/istio-release/releases/1.1.0-rc.0/charts/index.yaml
export RELEASE_URL=https://github.com/istio/istio/releases/download/untagged-c41cff3404b8cc79a97e/istio-1.1.0-rc.0-linux.tar.gz

DNS_DOMAIN=your-example-domain ./setup.sh release-1.1-20190203-09-16
```

### Installing release candidates
```bash
DNS_DOMAIN=v11mcp.qualistio.org ./setup_istio_release.sh 1.1.4 pre-release
```
This option uses pre-release buckets to get builds and charts.
