perf/benchmark/linkerd/README.md, before:

# Linkerd Benchmarking

In addition to a tuned Istio install, we also provide a Linkerd installation profile to run the same `../runner/` tests on.

Sources:

- <https://linkerd.io/2/getting-started/>
- <https://linkerd.io/2/reference/proxy-metrics/>

See the [example-comparison](example-comparison/) directory for how to run the same tests with both Istio and Linkerd.

## 1 - create cluster

```bash
./linkerd/istio-install/create-cluster
```

## 2 - install Linkerd

```bash
./linkerd/setup-linkerd.sh <VERSION>
```

## 3. deploy the fortio test environment

```bash
export NAMESPACE="twopods"
DNS_DOMAIN=local LINKERD_INJECT=enabled ./setup_test.sh
```

## 4. Run benchmark

Example:

```bash
python runner/runner.py 16,64 1000 240 --baseline --mesh=linkerd
```

## 5. Extract Fortio latency metrics to CSV

**Note** - Linkerd proxy CPU/memory usage not yet implemented, only latency performance.

```bash
export FORTIO_CLIENT_URL=<fortio client svc EXTERNAL_IP:port>

python ./runner/fortio.py $FORTIO_CLIENT_URL
```

## 6. Visualize results

```bash
python ./runner/graph.py <PATH_TO_CSV> <METRIC> --mesh=linkerd
```

## Examples

### Latency, 90th percentile

```bash
python ./runner/graph.py linkerd.csv p90 --mesh=linkerd
```

![example-linkerd-p90](linkerd-p90.png)

### Latency, 50th percentile

```bash
python ./runner/graph.py linkerd.csv p50 --mesh=linkerd
```

![example-linkerd-p50](linkerd-p50.png)

Commit message:

Release 1.4 benchmark recent updates (#540)
* delete gcloud compute instance logs (#514)

* fix Unable to use a TTY - input is not a terminal or the right kind of file (#518)

* fix Unable to use a TTY - input is not a terminal or the right kind of file

* remove -it command from kubectl exec

* fix linkerd perf installation issue and add comparison results (#512)

* fix linkerd related script

* update linkerd README

* add linkerd vs istio latency graphs

* fix lint error

* fix lint errors

* upload comparison graphs

* add newline

* Make the benchmark pipeline job easier to configure (#509)

* Use config files for benchmark params

* Add validation and fix lint

* Fix lint

* correct path

* copy the whole dir to gcs bucket (#524)

* collect flame graph when all tests is done (#530)

* update default value for config file (#533)

perf/benchmark/linkerd/README.md, after:

# Linkerd Benchmarking

In addition to a tuned Istio install, we also provide a Linkerd installation profile to run the same `../runner/` tests on.

Sources:

- <https://linkerd.io/2/getting-started/>
- <https://linkerd.io/2/reference/proxy-metrics/>

## 1 - Create cluster and Install Istio

Please follow this [Setup README](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/perf/benchmark#setup), finish step 1 and 2.

## 2 - Install Linkerd

```bash
cd ../benchmark/linkerd
./setup_linkerd.sh <linkerd-release-version>
```

You can run the following command to see what components are installed

```bash
kubectl -n linkerd get deploy
```

## 3. Deploy the fortio test environment

```bash
export NAMESPACE="twopods"
export DNS_DOMAIN=local
export LINKERD_INJECT=enabled
cd ..
./setup_test.sh
```

## 4.Prepare Python Environment

Please follow steps here: [Prepare Python Env](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/perf/benchmark#prepare-python-environment)

## 5. Run benchmark

Example:

```bash
python runner/runner.py 16,64 1000 240 --baseline --mesh=linkerd
```

## 6. Extract Fortio latency metrics to CSV

**Note** - Linkerd proxy CPU/memory usage not yet implemented, only latency performance.

```bash
export FORTIO_CLIENT_URL=<fortio client svc EXTERNAL_IP:port>

python runner/runner/fortio.py $FORTIO_CLIENT_URL
```

## 7. Visualize results

```bash
python ./runner/graph.py <PATH_TO_CSV> <METRIC> --mesh=linkerd
```

## Examples

### Latency, 90th percentile

```bash
python ./runner/graph.py linkerd.csv p90 --mesh=linkerd
```

![example-linkerd-p90](linkerd-p90.png)

### Latency, 50th percentile

```bash
python ./runner/graph.py linkerd.csv p50 --mesh=linkerd
```

![example-linkerd-p50](linkerd-p50.png)

See the [example-comparison](example-comparison/)
directory for a sample comparison between Istio and Linkerd from the perspective of Latency.
